feature: incorporate NIC into NGINX 1 Console (not yet for NGF) (#736)
nginx/documentation: content/nginx-one/k8s/add-nic.md

---
title: Connect to NGINX One Console
toc: true
weight: 200
nd-content-type: how-to
nd-product: NGINX One
---

> This document explains how to connect F5 NGINX Ingress Controller <!-- and F5 NGINX Gateway Fabric -->to F5 NGINX One Console using NGINX Agent.

Author: I need to remind myself this _will_ apply to both

Connecting NGINX Ingress Controller to NGINX One Console enables centralized monitoring of all controller instances.

Once connected, you'll see a **read-only** configuration of NGINX Ingress Controller. For each instance, you can review:

- Read-only configuration file
- SSL/TLS certificates
- CVEs

## Before you begin

Before connecting NGINX Ingress Controller to NGINX One Console, you need to create a Kubernetes Secret with the data plane key. Use the following command:

```shell

> kubectl create secret generic dataplane-key --from-literal=dataplane.key=<Your Dataplane Key> -n <namespace>

Reviewer: Formatted as multi-line for easier scanning and so it doesn't scroll

```

When you create a Kubernetes Secret, use the same namespace where NGINX Ingress Controller is running. 

> If you use `-watch-namespace` or `watch-secret-namespace` arguments with NGINX Ingress Controller, 

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the explanations for these args in our NIC docs, like we do for NGINX directives?

  
    allowed_directories:
      - /etc/nginx
      - /usr/lib/nginx/modules
  
    features:
      - certificates
      - connection
      - metrics
      - file-watcher
  
    ## command server settings
    command:
      server:
        host: product.connect.nginx.com
        port: 443
      auth:
        tokenpath: "/etc/nginx-agent/secrets/dataplane.key"
      tls:
        skip_verify: false
```      

Make sure to set the namespace in the nginx-agent.config to the same namespace as NGINX Ingress Controller.
Mount the ConfigMap to the deployment/daemonset file of NGINX Ingress Controller:

```yaml
volumeMounts:
- name: nginx-agent-config
  mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf
  subPath: nginx-agent.conf
- name: dataplane-key
  mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent/secrets
volumes:
- name: nginx-agent-config
  configMap:
    name: nginx-agent-config
- name: dataplane-key
  secret:
    secretName: <Your Dataplane Key Secret Name>
```

Follow the [Installation with Manifests]({{< ref "/nic/installation/installing-nic/installation-with-manifests.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller.

{{%/tab%}}
{{</tabs>}}

## Verify a connection to NGINX One Console

> After deploying NGINX Ingress Controller or NGINX Gateway Fabric with NGINX Agent, you can verify the connection to NGINX One Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After deploying NGINX Ingress Controller <!-- or NGINX Gateway Fabric --> with NGINX Agent, you can verify the connection to NGINX One Console.
```

> Log in to your F5 Distributed Console cloud account. Select **NGINX One > Visit Service**. In the dashboard that appears, navigate to **Manage > Instances**. Your instances should appear in the list, where the instance name is the hostname and also the pod name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to your F5 Distributed Cloud Console account. Select **NGINX One > Visit Service**. In the dashboard, go to **Manage > Instances**. You should see your instances listed by name. The instance name matches both the hostname and the pod name.
```

---
title: Connect to NGINX One Console
toc: true
weight: 200
nd-content-type: how-to
nd-product: NGINX One
---

This document explains how to connect F5 NGINX Ingress Controller <!-- and F5 NGINX Gateway Fabric -->to F5 NGINX One Console using NGINX Agent.
Connecting NGINX Ingress Controller to NGINX One Console enables centralized monitoring of all controller instances.

Once connected, you'll see a **read-only** configuration of NGINX Ingress Controller. For each instance, you can review:

- Read-only configuration file

> - SSL/TLS certificates

Reviewer 3: Do we want to mention that only unmanaged certificates are supported for control planes?

Author: ```suggestion
- Unmanaged SSL/TLS certificates for Control Planes
```

> - CVEs

Reviewer 3: CVEs won't be supported in this release. Should we remove it from the doc?

Author: ```suggestion
```

```shell
kubectl create secret generic dataplane-key \
  --from-literal=dataplane.key=<Your Dataplane Key> \
  -n <namespace>
```

When you create a Kubernetes Secret, use the same namespace where NGINX Ingress Controller is running. 
If you use [`-watch-namespace`]({{< ref "/nic/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments.md#watch-namespace-string" >}}) or [`watch-secret-namespace`]({{< ref "/nic/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments.md#watch-secret-namespace-string" >}}) arguments with NGINX Ingress Controller, 
you need to add the dataplane key secret to the watched namespaces. This secret will take approximately 60 - 90 seconds to reload on the pod.

{{<note>}}
You can also create a data plane key through the NGINX One Console. Once loggged in, select **Manage > Control Planes > Add Control Plane**, and follow the steps shown.
{{</note>}}

## Deploy NGINX Ingress Controller with NGINX Agent

{{<tabs name="deploy-config-resource">}}
{{%tab name="Helm"%}}

Edit your `values.yaml` file to enable NGINX Agent and configure it to connect to NGINX One Console:

```yaml
nginxAgent:
  enable: true

>   dataplaneKeySecretName: "<Your Dataplane Key Secret Name>"

Reviewer 3: A format like this `<nginx-ingress-pod-name>` was used below which is different from this format. I would suggest that we use a consistent format.

I asked our internal F5 GPT on a standard format to use.

> The industry standard for showing variable names in configuration files often depends on the conventions of the specific domain or technology being used. However, here are some general guidelines:
> 
> ### Common Options:
> 
> 1. __`<data_key>`__: This is widely used in programming and configuration contexts where underscores are preferred for separating words. It aligns with snake_case conventions, which are common in many programming languages and configuration formats.
> 2. __`<data-key>`__: This is often used in web-related contexts, such as HTML attributes or JSON keys, where hyphens are preferred for readability.
> 3. __`<Data Key>`__: This is less common in technical contexts but might be used in documentation or user-facing text where readability is prioritized over strict naming conventions.
> 
> ### Recommendation:
> 
> - __Use `<data_key>`__ for configuration files, as it is the most common and recognizable format in technical contexts, especially for fields or placeholders.
> - __Use `<data-key>`__ if the configuration file is intended for web-related technologies or JSON-like formats.
> - Avoid `<Data Key>` unless the configuration file is meant to be highly user-friendly and non-technical.
> 
> ### Example:
> 
> If your configuration file is for a technical audience, `<data_key>` is the safest and most standard choice.

This aligns with my knowledge of which one is a standard to use. I'd suggest that we use this format, but please feel free to correct me if you think this is incorrect:
```suggestion
  dataplaneKeySecretName: "<data_plane_key_secret_name>"
```

Reviewer 3: It sounds like we're holding off the release at the moment and there is a meeting in the morning (PST) on 7/1 to re-evaluate the release time.

Follow the [Installation with Helm]({{< ref "/nic/installation/installing-nic/installation-with-helm.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller.

{{%/tab%}}
{{%tab name="Manifests"%}}

Add the following flag to the Deployment/DaemonSet file of NGINX Ingress Controller:

```yaml
args:
- -agent=true
```

Create a `ConfigMap` with an `nginx-agent.conf` file:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: nginx-agent-config
  namespace: <namespace>
data:
  nginx-agent.conf: |-
    log:
      # set log level (error, info, debug; default "info")
      level: info
      # set log path. if empty, don't log to file.
      path: ""
  
    allowed_directories:
      - /etc/nginx
      - /usr/lib/nginx/modules
  
    features:
      - certificates
      - connection
      - metrics
      - file-watcher
  
    ## command server settings
    command:
      server:
        host: product.connect.nginx.com
        port: 443
      auth:
        tokenpath: "/etc/nginx-agent/secrets/dataplane.key"
      tls:
        skip_verify: false
```      

Make sure to set the namespace in the nginx-agent.config to the same namespace as NGINX Ingress Controller.

> Mount the ConfigMap to the deployment/daemonset file of NGINX Ingress Controller:

Reviewer 3: We should use Kubernetes standard term for Deployment and DaemonSet
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/

```suggestion
Mount the ConfigMap to the Deployment/DaemonSet file of NGINX Ingress Controller:
```

```yaml
volumeMounts:
- name: nginx-agent-config
  mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf
  subPath: nginx-agent.conf
- name: dataplane-key
  mountPath: /etc/nginx-agent/secrets
volumes:
- name: nginx-agent-config
  configMap:
    name: nginx-agent-config
- name: dataplane-key
  secret:

>     secretName: <Your Dataplane Key Secret Name>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    secretName: <data_plane_key_secret_name>
```

Also, should this value use double quotes as well like this?
```suggestion
    secretName: "<data_plane_key_secret_name>"
```

```

Follow the [Installation with Manifests]({{< ref "/nic/installation/installing-nic/installation-with-manifests.md" >}}) instructions to deploy NGINX Ingress Controller.

{{%/tab%}}
{{</tabs>}}

## Verify a connection to NGINX One Console

> After deploying NGINX Ingress Controller <!-- or NGINX Gateway Fabric --> with NGINX Agent, you can verify the connection to NGINX One Console.

Reviewer 3: Since we don't support. NGINX Gateway Fabric yet, should we remove this from the doc?

Author: It's in comments. So it won't show up in the doc

Log in to your F5 Distributed Cloud Console account. Select **NGINX One > Visit Service**. In the dashboard, go to **Manage > Instances**. You should see your instances listed by name. The instance name matches both the hostname and the pod name.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues connecting your instances to NGINX One Console, try the following commands:

Check the NGINX Agent version:

```shell

> kubectl exec -it -n <namespace> <nginx-ingress-pod-name> -- nginx-agent -v

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl exec -it -n <namespace> <nginx_ingress_pod_name> -- nginx-agent -v
```

```
  
If nginx-agent version is v3, continue with the following steps.
Otherwise, make sure you are using an image that does not include NGINX App Protect. 

Check the NGINX Agent configuration:

```shell

> kubectl exec -it -n <namespace> <nginx-ingress-pod-name> -- cat /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl exec -it -n <namespace> <nginx_ingress_pod_name> -- cat /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf
```

```

Check NGINX Agent logs:

```shell

> kubectl exec -it -n <namespace> <nginx-ingress-pod-name> -- nginx-agent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl exec -it -n <namespace> <nginx_ingress_pod_name> -- nginx-agent
```

```

Select the instance associated with your deployment of NGINX Ingress Controller. Under the **Details** tab, you'll see You'll see information associated with:

> - SSL/TLS certificates

Reviewer 3: Do we want to mention that only unmanaged certificates are supported for control planes?

Author: ```suggestion
- Unmanaged SSL/TLS certificates for Control Planes 
```

> - CVEs

Reviewer 3: CVEs won't be supported in this release. Should we remove it from the doc?

Author: ```suggestion
```
